Wow the human body is a fascinatingly
complex machine from the incredible way
your eyes develop over time to the
surprisingly large number of muscles it
takes just a talk like this well get
ready because this isn't your typical
anatomy lesson here are some amazing
facts about the human body
you never could have guessed were true
counting down from number 25 oxygen-rich
blood flows through your veins to pretty
much every part of your body except one
the cornea which is the outer layer of
your eye
gets its oxygen directly from the air
and not from your blood it's also the
body's fastest healing spot cuts or
scratches you get there can heal within
one to two days
number 24 smell that you probably smell
a lot of things every day but you'll
never guess how many smells the human
brain can memorize in a lifetime 50,000
and that's why different smells can
immediately spark a specific memory
number 23 it's easy to open your mouth
and talk right then you'll be shocked to
know that 72 different muscles are
behind your ability to speak whoa
number 22 did you know 90% of people
can't remember what they dreamed about
the night before you dream during the
REM phase of sleep which takes up 20% of
your sleeping time and occurs every 90
minutes if you happen to wake up during
this phase you're more likely to
remember your dream or at least the last
one you had but most of the time you
forget them oh well
21 humans are born with close to 300
bones and cartilage elements but by the
time they grow up they have around 206
that's because as a baby
many of our bones consist of cartilage
which is much more flexible and allows
us to squeeze through the birth canal
well into a person's 20s much of this
cartilage turns to bones in a process
called ossification number 20 after a
person dies the brain continues to be
active for at least 10 seconds according
to a 2016 study by researchers from the
University of Western Ontario in Canada
the brain can continue to function after
the heart stops beating but what the
brain is computing is still a mystery 19
speaking of the heart it can actually
beat outside the body thanks to a
machine called the organ care system or
OCS donor hearts can be kept alive
longer during transport increasing
travel time by up to 12 hours 18 if you
were to go into outer space
you'd probably grow up to 2 inches
taller nASA says this cosmic growth
spurt is due to the lack of gravity
you'd be exposed to in a zero-gravity
environment the spaces between your
vertebrae actually expand unlike on
earth where they're pushed together by
you guessed it
gravity 17 ever have a craving to eat
yourself wow you must not be hungry
enough that according to researchers at
the Albert Einstein College of Medicine
extreme dieting can cause the brain to
start eating itself
they found that neurons in the
hypothalamus start to consume their own
proteins if the body isn't getting
enough food so what's eating you
number 16 well it might not look like it
from the outside your small intestine is
23 feet long so if you could stretch it
out and hold it up it would be taller
than an indulge arap then you'll have
the problem of trying to stuff it all
back in number 15 ever notice how a lot
of your organs come in pairs like the
lungs and kidneys it's so that if you
were to lose one your body could still
function with the other that's how
people can donate a kidney and still
live on the one they have left 14 now
here's one you can test right now try to
breathe and swallow at the same time you
can't do it because it's impossible your
voice box is positioned in such a way
that you cannot do these two things
simultaneously well on purpose at least
13 speaking of the voice box humans
unlike other primates have one that sits
lower in their throat that's why people
make such a wide array of sounds if
that's the case then Mariah Carey's
voice box must be weighed down in her
stomach
number 12 my grandma what big ears you
have now don't say that unless grandma
really is the big bad wolf hey ever
notice how older people sport bigger
noses and ears
well that's because these body parts
continue to grow over the course of your
entire life eleven adults are
recommended to drink around two liters
of water a day that means by the time
you're 70 years old you'll have chugged
down fifty one thousand liters which is
over thirteen thousand gallons of water
that's as much as your average sized
swimming pool by the way perhaps it's
also logical to say that you'd have peed
out the same thirteen thousand gallons
over time it'd be interesting to compute
the number of flushes needed for that
but we just don't have the
number 10 a pregnant woman's belly might
grow but her brain actually shrinks a
2006 study published in the journal
Nature Neuroscience found that gray
matter which is responsible for
understanding people's feelings and
nonverbal signs diminishes in a pregnant
woman's brain well it might get a little
smaller the brain also becomes much more
efficient which is the body's way of
strengthening the bond between a mother
and her baby 9 still can't believe you
managed to eat an entire pizza by
yourself last week well your stomach is
pretty powerful
it's full of acidic juices that help
break down the things you eat so that
they digest properly if this acid were
to touch your skin it would burn right
through it in fact it's actually strong
enough to dissolve metal but that
doesn't mean you should start chomping
down on your silverware or anything
number eight I'm sure you know that no
two people have the same fingerprints
but did you know the same goes for your
tongue that's right your tongue has
patterns on it that are completely
unique to you your teeth are also
one-of-a-kind and no one else can have
the same exact dental print as you
either number seven
lifting your pinky finger while sipping
on a cup of tea may look dainty but this
little finger is stronger than you think
dr. Steven gluco explains that 50% of
your hand strength comes from your pinky
finger
but since the pinky sits on the very
edge of your hand it has little
protection so unlike your middle or ring
finger it's more likely to get broken
make sure to protect your pinkies you
need them more than you can imagine
number six ever wonder why we call our
muscles muscles well the word muscle
comes from a latin term that translates
to little mouse
ancient Romans thought muscles look like
little mice and so decided to call them
as such
a could have been worse they could have
named them after the platypus number
five your belly button is the first scar
you ever receive that's right
it marks where your umbilical cord was
when you were in your mother's womb you
received all your nutrients through this
literal lifeline since you couldn't eat
through your mouth yet since the cord
gets cut off after birth you now have
that cute little belly button but did
you know there's a bunch of bacteria in
there according to the National
Geographic the average person carries
around 67 different species of bacteria
right in their belly button isn't this
useful number four it's okay no need to
blush from the embarrassment of your
dirty belly button actually humans are
the only species known to blush bushing
requires you to be aware of what others
think about you which humans are
definitely capable of that being said
some people are more susceptible to
blushing than others number three in
school you probably learned that humans
and chimpanzees have the same ancestors
so it's no surprise that humans share
98.4% of their DNA with chimps but did
you know you also share 70% of your DNA
with slugs and 90% of it with
domesticated cats well if you ever find
yourself wanting to chase around a red
laser now you know why number two when
you leaned in to kiss someone which way
do you tilt your head well if you're
like two-thirds of the population you
lean your head to the right when going
in for a big smooch there's been tons of
research looking into why this is
because they apparently couldn't think
of anything better to research a recent
2017 study published in scientific
reports found that men are more likely
to initiate a kiss and if they lean
right which the majority of them do
their partner will then tilt to the left
to complete the kiss other studies have
argued that the way you tilt when
kissing depends on social exposure as
well as brain function
well that's been keeping me up at night
good to know that number one ah look at
that cute baby do you think you can see
you looking at it while baby's eyes do
function normally once they're born
they're not yet fully developed which
means they see the world a bit
differently than adults do right after
birth baby see things in black and white
hues not color and during the first week
of their life they can only see eight to
twelve inches in front of them by the
time there are around four months old
babies start to see in color
that's why kids toys are often brightly
colored and in bold patterns it's to
help stimulate them just imagine all the
things babies get to see and experience
for the very first time
pretty cool huh what other mind-boggling
facts you know about the human body let
everybody know down in the comments
remember to give this video a like share
it with your friends and click subscribe
to always stay on the bright side of
life
[Music]
you